- [Instructor] One of the highly sought-after skills today
in software development
is the integration of GitHub actions
with Microsoft Azure for Spring Boot.
This code recipe we're going to be looking at
will help you expand your repertoire
of cloud deployment services
with CI/CD, along with Azure and GitHub.
For this tutorial,
we're going to be using our GitHub project
as we've used in previous demos,
along with Microsoft Azure.
Before we get into the majority of this work, however,
we're going to do some cleanup in the Azure portal
by deleting some resource groups,
app services and apps.
Please open up the Azure portal
and click on all resources.
I'm going to demonstrate deleting a couple
of resources but please feel free
to delete all the resources you wish
as this will make what we do later much easier to identify.
I'm going to start with our spring-boot-app.
I'll click delete.
And this is going to ask for the name of the app.
Copy the name, paste it in
and click Delete.
I'll move over to our spring-boot-azure-container.
Again, I'll click delete.
Yes to confirm.
As you can tell, some resources require more
than just a simple button click.
This is meant to provide extra safety and security for you
so that you don't accidentally delete a resource.
Next, I'm going to go back to the home link.
I'll click resource groups.
I'll go to my SpringBoot-Azure-Group.
Then I'll click delete on this resource group.
Again, it's asking for confirmation.
I'll copy the name, paste in the resource group
and click delete.
If you're curious on the status,
you can click the bell icon in the top right
and this will tell you the status
of the actions you have performed.
With some of that done,
let's turn our attention to IntelliJ.
We're going to create and set up a branch we'll need
for our GitHub workflow.
Let's switch to the main branch.
Git switch main.
And from here, we're going to create a new branch.
We'll type git checkout -b jar_workflow_azure.
As you remember, this will create
and switch to that new branch.
Next, let's push this branch
to our remote repository.
I'll type git push -u origin jar_workflow_azure.
With this complete, let's go ahead
and go back to the Azure portal now.
Click home and then all resources.
From there we'll click create.
We'll select Web App, Create.
In resource group, we'll click create new.
We'll call this resource group
spring-boot-jar-workflow-group.
For the web app, we'll similarly call
this spring-boot-jar-workflow-app.
For the runtime, we'll select Java 11.
We'll leave the Java Web Server stack
as Embedded Web Server.
And everything else will remain the same
as the default.
We'll click review and create.
And then create.
When it's done, click on go to resource
so we can see an overview of the web app.
Let's go ahead and set our profile
for the application to be deployed.
We're going to click on the configuration menu option
on the left side,
and when that finishes,
we'll click on new application settings.
For the application settings,
we're going to type SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE
and for the value, I'm going to type dev,azure.
And click OK.
Followed by clicking save and continue.
Next, we'll click on Deployment Center.
And then settings.
We'll select our source to be GitHub.
And we'll sign in.
Mine is already signed in to cwm-coding
but go ahead and click change account or sign in.
This will generate a dialog
and you'll need to sign in to your GitHub account.
In my instance,
this is sending a six-digit OTP to my cell phone.
If this happens to you, please do the same.
Once you're signed in, select the organization.
Mine is cwm-coding.
Please make sure you select your organization.
Followed by the repository,
which will be SpringBootProduction.
And then the branch we're going
to select is jar_workflow_azure.
We'll leave the radio button option set
to add a workflow.
And then we'll click review file.
This will actually be the workflow
that's added to our projects.
There'll be a few changes we need to make here.
One of them will be the name of our build,
which will not be with Maven
but will be with Gradle.
We'll change also the commands that are used.
And then, of course, the location of the JAR file.
Okay, click close and then save.
As I said, this will automatically be put
in our repository.
So let's switch back to IntelliJ.
In the bottom, let's type clear,
then git fetch origin.
Git pull origin.
And if we click on workflows at the top,
it will automatically show
the new jar_workflow_azure_spring-boot-jar.
Now, we're going to delete the build-package-deploy.
We're not going to use this in our Azure builds.
So we'll click delete.
And then let's make a few changes
to our new workflow.
For branches, we're going to change this to main.
We'll go down to the build with Maven
and we'll change the label name
to build with Gradle.
The run command is going to be ./gradle clean build.
And our web app's target is going to be
build/libs/SpringBootProdApplication-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar.
We'll click Save.
Go to the terminal window in IntelliJ
and type git add.
Let's type git status to see the changes.
Then git commit -m.
Changes needed for azure deployment workflow.
And then we'll push our changes.
Git push -u origin jar_workflow_azure.
Next, let's go to GitHub.
I'm automatically logged in.
Click on our repository.
And as you can see, there's already a compare
and pull request.
We'll click on this.
We'll click on create pull request.
We'll click on merge request and confirm.
Back under code,
let's check our GitHub workflows,
and as you can see, we only have the one workflow now.
Let's click on actions.
And we see a merge request has been sent.
Under build,
Java has been set up
and the Gradle task is running.
Now the deploy job is available.
And we're showing it's complete.
If we click on the link,
it takes us to the site
that the application is being deployed.
Now, this does take a moment
for the application to be complete.
So we'll refresh and in a moment,
the application will be available.